so Siller G sorry Siler gray asks how
does compassion fatigue affect you it
doesn't to be honest so I think what
fatigues me is being inauthentic like
what's tiring is putting on a
act so what I love about what I do is it
doesn't if at eat like I mean sure I'm
tired at the end of it because it's like
a kind of emotionally active but it sort
of feels like working out like at the
end of a workout you kind of feel
physically exhausted but like
spiritually powerful and that's so
compassion fatigue doesn't affect me
because sure there's like emotions and
that can be tiring but I find it like
spiritually gratifying to like help
another human being and it inspires me
and it gives me energy that's how I can
do it for like 10 hours a day what's
hard to do 10 hours a day is live a life
that is like not worth living to live a
life of like falseness and to put on a
mask like that's fatiguing
what's wonderful and this is the big
problem with gamers is that they
actually don't live a life that
spiritually fulfilling and so they feel
like they have low energy they don't get
that energy doesn't come from from like
expending energy energy come sorry
energy comes from like living a life of
purpose that's what gives you strength
doing something that matters like when
you're and you think about this like
think about the times in your life where
you've gone the extra mile and those are
times in your life when like someone
needed you right that's when you
actually like you're able to to
double-down like when your friend is
going through a breakup that's when you
can stay up till 4:00 in the morning and
like support them in the next day go to
class and still do a decent job when you
live a life that is like worth living
and you when you live a life that's
aligned with what you care about and
what you believe the world needs that's
actually invigorating it gives you a ton
of energy and if we think about what a
gamer's deal with like they deal with
like a lack of energy like they have
trouble getting out of bed they have
trouble getting out of the house like
why is that that's because they're not
tapping into energy they're not tapping
into an energy of like doing something
that has purpose and meaning and so
compassion fatigue sure it sort of
affects me a little bit but most of the
time when I go home I feel tired at the
end of a day of work but I feel
fulfilled and then that fulfillment like
carries over to my kids and though even
though I'm physically exhausted you know
I'm still gonna like attend to them in a
way that that it's I mean it's cool it's
it feels good
so your ability to be engaged did you
have that before training for instance
the body language facial gestures are on
point I mean I think you have to
remember that so elite mcpeet let me ask
the question where clearly your ability
to be engaged did you have that before
training for instance the body language
facial gestures are on point so I think
first of all you guys have to remember
that you are an amalgamation of your
entire life right like sometimes
like sometimes you feel like something
comes from just one part of your life
but you have to remember that you're
kind of a confluence of everything
that's happened to you
so for me I found that like I spent most
of my life hiding my feelings and when I
went to India and spent years sort of
sudden to become a monk is when I
started to tap into who I was as a
person and then when I came back to the
u.s. if you actually trained to be a
therapist
they actually trained you to be more of
a blank slate like if you think about
the classic therapists like Sigmund
Freud sat behind his patients they
couldn't even see his face and it's to
be as neutral as possible because their
idea was that the more neutral you are
the less you inject into the
relationship and that the more that the
person that you're doing therapy with
can like express themselves so by
removing yourself from the equation all
that's left is a hundred percent of them
and what I actually found is that the
more of a blank slate that I was the
more tired I would feel I felt that I
had to like restrain who I was as a
person and I also like like it didn't
seem to be helping like I was a shitty
therapist for like two years and I
started to become a good therapist when
I actually threw out the playbook and I
started to listen to myself
so I became that became something that's
called an active therapist we just that
I don't listen to my patients problems I
just don't listen because I find that
boring I can't do that it's
exhausting I share my thoughts with them
and I share them early and I'm wrong a
lot like you know therapy like so what
we do over here is not really therapy
but part of the reason that we get to
feeling so fast is because I'm not a
blank slate like I think when I sit
there like I used to Train like I've
used to force myself to be a blank slate
and six months would go by and like
people that I was working with wouldn't
get better and I was like what am I
doing here I'm gonna just try to be me
and I find that when you're authentic it
actually like helps other people out you
feel better I think like truth is
amazing there's a Sun Squidward and
Satya and they said like Satya means
truth and they say that a lot of
spiritual energy comes from being
truthful and I absolutely believe that I
think a lot of the reasons that people
gamers struggle is because they live a
life of lies
just lying all the time they lie
to themselves they lie to their parents
they lie to their loved ones and lie to
their teachers they lie to their friends
you lie lie lie lie lie and they don't
get anywhere in life you get strength
from truthfulness you speak the truth
you call problems what they are you
bring them into the light and you face
them truthfulness is about facing the
music and when you start to live a life
of truthfulness you think that your
world comes crashing down around you but
the opposite happens you start building
it you find energy you find reserves of
strength that allow you to change and
transform your life like Jessica like
why was what happened with Jessica
powerful today it's because it wasn't
lying it was truth she faced the depth
of her feelings she faced the idea that
her her father did not treat her like a
human being that you'd think that that
would destroy you you'd think that if
you face that head-on it's gonna just
destroy you but the beautiful
thing the paradoxical thing the amazing
thing is that it does the exact opposite
when you face your demons somehow you
find the strength to like fight them and
overcome the way to overcome your demons
is by like engaging with them and
fighting them and even like giving them
a hug from time to time
and so my facial gestures and body
language like I agree that they're a big
part of what I do with people and saw
I'd encourage you guys to be authentic
and you have to be authentic with
yourself and did I have to train yeah so
I trained one way to like learn Who I am
and then I trained the other way so I
think this is really important to wear
if you want mastery over something you
can't just do one side of it you have to
do all sides of
right like you have to learn like if you
want to be a good chef you have to know
when to use salt and when not to use
salt so what I learned is when to use a
facial expression and when to use body
language and when not to use a facial
expression and body language there's a
lot that I show and there's a lot that I
don't show there's a lot of thoughts
that I have which I restrain and so is
it a product of training yes but I'd say
more importantly it's a product of
thoughtfulness it's a product of
understanding like what's going on
inside me and figuring out when to when
to laugh and when to cry and when to be
neutral when to be silent and when to
speak
in terms of feeling okay with yourself
aren't there times so Fitness Jim says
in terms of feeling you're okay with
yourself aren't there times you
shouldn't feel okay with yourself and
that's completely functional is it that
one of the main human drives absolutely
so I think not feeling okay with
yourself can also be authentic right so
like there are times where you should
treat yourself with compassion and there
are also times where you should sort of
call yourself out for being like
up and case in point that's what I
learned with you Fitness Gym because
there were some things that I did that
actually we're not good like I
appreciate that you've got thick skin
but I kind of up in our
conversation right like there are times
where I sort of felt bad about and I
think it's good to feel bad about
because I sort of didn't I didn't give
you a fair shake because I had a
10-minute conversation with you where I
painted you in a particular light and
even though that didn't hurt you that
doesn't like just because you have thick
skin doesn't mean that I didn't make a
mistake
like the fact that you were okay with it
as fine and I'm glad I'm happy for you
but I still made the mistake and I need
to be honest with myself about that that
if I want to if I I should be careful
about the kind of light that I paint
people in because if we had stopped at
15 minutes like Jessica would have felt
like like I have to be careful
about opening a door and having enough
time to close it and tie it up in a
positive way so I think it is functional
for us to feel guilt I don't think we
should stop feeling guilt I think guilt
is a sign when we're off-track that
that's what it can mean and so we should
absolutely acknowledge and be truthful
and authentic with ourselves about when
we overstep and when we understand
yeah so so fitness gym kind of goes on
to elaborate and he says yeah I imagine
that's someone who is obese has diabetes
doesn't feel okay with themselves in
their body
absolutely so I'm not someone who's sort
of for like full body acceptance you
know there's like this movement that you
should accept everyone for who they are
and I think that yeah you should accept
everyone for who they are as their
person but that there are also some
health behaviors that are like not going
to be good for you and you should work
on changing those so acceptance doesn't
mean turning a blind eye and this is
important so you guys have to understand
this true acceptance doesn't mean
turning a blind eye towards the bad half
of you I'm saying the exact opposite but
there are some people who feel like oh
like you know if someone tells me that
I'm gonna have heart disease that my
doctor is fat shaming me like I think
that's a problem because you're you're
bullshitting yourself to authenticity
and real sathya is looking at the things
that you're doing right and the things
that you're doing wrong and if when you
look at yourself and you say I'm not
doing anything wrong that's up so
people say like they come to me because
I'm knowledgeable and I'm an expert
right but like I still make mistakes I
make huge mistakes I made a huge mistake
with Fitness gym last Friday and I can
be good at what I do and I can still
up and I think real office
authenticity and being okay with
yourself being like the best person for
yourself supporting yourself the best
means calling yourself out on your
and if you're overweight and
you're obese and you have diabetes you
shouldn't be okay with that because
that's not okay
you should be authentic with yourself
and you have to say okay I shouldn't
beat myself up it doesn't mean that I'm
a shitty person but this is something
that I have to change I think the
problem becomes when they're obesity and
the judgment that they create for
themselves because such a huge part of
who they are that they can't like that
that that keeps them from working out
they feel so ashamed that they can't go
to the gym and so I think you have to
walk a fine line between like accepting
like not judging yourself for being
where you are and also accepting that
it's okay to want to change and that you
should change and grow